We're in a series that we titled, Out of Nowhere.
And the title of this message in this series is, The Spirit in Skill and Excellence.
Here's what I believe.
There is a lie that many believers have believed without maybe realizing it.
It is the lie that only certain things are spiritual.
We think preaching is spiritual.
For some it is, for some it's a job.
We think praying is spiritual.
For some is, some it's just
over and over again the same stuff.
We think singing is spiritual, and these are spiritual things.
But building, designing, leading, managing, creating, serving, working with your hands, we quietly classify those things as ordinary.
They're not on the same ballpark.
But God does not see your life in sacred or secular categories.
He just sees your life.
And what God sees is surrender, surrendering to Him.
See, the Spirit of God does not just feel preachers, He feels people.
The Spirit of God does not just anoint platforms, He anoints faithfulness.
And one of the most surprising moments in all of scripture proves this, Exodus, chapter 31, verses one through three.
Then the Lord said to Moses, look, I have specifically chosen
Bizelah, son of your eye, grandson of her, of the tribe of Judah.
Listen this, I have filled him with the spirit of God, giving him great wisdom, ability and expertise in all kinds of crafts.
The first person in scripture explicitly described as being filled with the spirit of God was not a prophet, it was not a priest, it was not a king, it was a builder.
God filled a man not to preach, but to build.
The Spirit of God empowers skill.
The Spirit of God empowers excellence.
And the Spirit of God empowers work done for his glory.
And some of you may have believed the lie that your work is just your job and it doesn't really matter.
I've had people for years walk up and say, I only do this and I only do that.
And I'm like, it's not a thing when you only do, it's something that God
had put in your path to do.
And you're as anointed as any preacher or worship or whatever, you want to call it, you have the same ability.
You have the same Holy Spirit and God sees you the same way.
But when work is surrendered to God, it does become worship.
Colossians 3, 23, work willingly at whatever you do as though you were working for the Lord rather than for people.
Whatever you do can become worship when it is surrendered to Him.
Let me just talk about that for a moment.
Whatever you do, you do is under the Lord.
We don't work for people, we work for God.
God is the one that opens doors and closes doors.
And a lot of our doors are closing because we work for ourselves and we don't work for Him.
We've never surrendered our life to Him and said, God, I'm just gonna be faithful.
I'm gonna do the best I can.
And then what you don't realize is God will give you, pull out other gifts in you that you don't even know that are there.
Folks, let me just say this.
I should not be standing here if you look at me in the natural.
I wasn't the brightest kid in high school.
All I want to do is finish.
Get my diploma.
That's it.
I didn't care what grades.
I just wanted to get it and get it done.
I'm not the brightest or smartest.
I'm probably not the best speaker.
But here's what I've done.
Learn.
When I worked at UPS, when I refereed, I learned to be and do it as unto God.
Regardless of my bosses, regardless of problems, man, we do it for the kingdom.
We do it for God.
And he used me in my route.
I prayed with people.
I believe God with people.
Why?
Because no matter what you're called to do, no matter what gifts are in you, what skills you have, God gave them to you and he wants to use them if you'll surrender them.
to Him, He wants to use them and cause you to be the most successful person you could ever be.
And we got to quit getting caught up in the worldly stuff that's really junk.
You know, I've learned this over the years that people get mental health days.
And I'm not saying people don't have mental issues, but most of the time they just use those to get out of work.
There's so many things wrong for me with that.
Moses probably needed some mental health days.
God says, I'm killing all the Jews.
He said, don't do it because they'll mock us.
Then later on Moses says, would you please kill every one of them?
I bet he needed a mental health day.
Don't buy into the rhetoric and the ungodliness of the world and buy into those things.
Let me address something else because we see our problems with it.
Bringing dogs to church.
I always thought the Holy Spirit was my comforter.
Now I didn't realize there's service dogs.
There's real service dogs.
I've been around them.
I've seen them with MS patients.
I've seen them with blind folk.
But this other stuff doesn't make any sense to me.
I thought the Holy Spirit was our comforter.
We get caught up in the world's fads and really ignorance in my opinion.
And then we buy into him as Christians, we buy into God and what his word says.
I will work as unto the Lord.
I will do my job as unto that.
We could all have days where we're hurting in that, but it's just what I've taught my team for years.
When we walk on this stage, we are no longer about ourselves, we come here to serve.
I guess because my friend died, I could have taken a mental health day.
I didn't even think about something like that.
That didn't cross my mind.
Are you sad?
Yes, I'm sad.
But when you come up here, when you serve God, you do it as unto Him.
You put all that aside.
I'll pick that up when I walk back through that door.
But not now, folks.
This is what I'm trying to teach us and share with us.
And I believe it's godly.
You can't find any of that in the Scripture.
Well, these people know, no, they don't.
They're just trying to make us so dependent on them and the world and the government that we are never dependent on God.
I had a lady walk up to me, she's sitting in here now.
She walked up to me a little bit ago and said, hey, man, they said I had an aneurysm in my stomach area, and she goes, I went back and it's healed, it's gone.
God did that.
I'm like, wow, that's pretty incredible.
I don't know where she's at, but you told me and it's in my mind, that's God is the healer.
Can you have mental issues?
Sure you can, but we can believe God and do what's right and whatever, but these
and these things and people usually use them because they don't want to go to work.
Well, I'm sick today and you're out skiing.
That's not how Christians are supposed to do their job.
Let me tell you something.
The bosses may never know, but God knows.
And if you want the blessing of God in your life, we all have to begin to work.
as unto Him.
You don't work for that company.
You don't work for that boss.
You work for God, and in doing so, you'll treat that company and that boss better.
And that's the heart of God.
Whether you like it or not, we can bind it all the secular stuff, the ungodly stuff, the world of psychology, which I think is so crazy in itself.
Because here's what I know.
They can never heal anybody.
I'm not against it, but they can't heal anybody.
Only God can heal.
They just teach you to deal with whatever you're dealing with better.
And there's nothing wrong with that as long as it doesn't become ungodly.
We could all have bad days.
When we go to work, we do it as under the Lord.
We may have heartache at home.
Even in your home, you do it as under the Lord.
God was building something in Exodus.
I bet I'm the
I've not heard any other preacher talk about mental health days.
But anyway, I'm not as smart as some of them probably.
But God was building something in Exodus.
He was building the tabernacle, the dwelling place of His presence.
And God did not just give instructions.
He filled a person.
Exodus 31.4 says, to devise artistic designs
to work in gold, silver, silver and bronze.
The Spirit of God made him excellent.
And excellence is not perfectionism.
Excellence is honor.
Excellence is not doing things perfectly.
Excellence is honoring God in whatever you do.
Whatever you do.
Excellence does not, does says, or excellence says, God deserves my best.
Excellence says,
You are worthy of my full effort, not my leftovers, because excellence offered to God is worship.
And some of the most spiritual things you will ever do will never happen on a stage.
It will happen in your office.
It will happen on a job site.
It will happen in your home.
It will happen when no one sees you, but God.
That's when it all happens, because God builds his house through hidden faithfulness.
People tell me, well, you're the pastor of the church, so maybe you're not sure agreed or you're just as important.
I've always believed that because I couldn't do this if you didn't do that.
The prayer team is so incredible to me.
I love, that's one of the favorite parts of the service for me on any service is watching people come up and get prayer.
Why?
Because God's house shall be called the house of prayer.
Zechariah 4.10 says, do not despise the day of small things.
God rejoices in faithful work.
God rejoices when you show up with integrity.
God rejoices when you do what is right when no one is watching.
Some of you feel spiritually insignificant.
You feel like your life is ordinary.
You feel like your contribution is small.
But Bizel el teaches us something very powerful.
God feels ordinary people.
to do extraordinary things when they surrender what is in their hands.
Whatever you have, you put it in the master's hands.
I'm only up here because I think God felt bad for me.
But seriously, I meet other preachers.
We have a lot of them here.
They're smart.
They're just incredibly gifted and talented.
And I'm like, God, I tell my wife all the time, why do you think God has us to be a part of this?
Have the friends we have.
The people we get to serve with.
And the only thing I can think of is I just never quit.
You don't have to be the most talented.
You don't have to be the most gifted.
You just have to be the most surrendered.
And watch what God does in your life.
Watch.
And that brings us to surrender.
Surrender is giving God full ownership of what He has already given you.
Surrender means I stop living as the owner and start living as a steward, which is so hard for most people.
Surrender means nothing in my life is off limits to God.
God does not feel what you control.
He feels what you surrender to Him.
As long as you hold it,
It stays limited to you, but when you surrender it, it becomes empowered by Him.
That's why a lot of us are stagnated, we're frustrated.
It's like our life's not going anywhere.
You have to ask yourself, have I truly surrendered my life to Him?
Or have I bought up, bought up, bought into all the secular things and the secular mindset and the worldly mindset and just like the world.
I'm no different than anybody else.
but or have I surrendered my life to God?
The reason some of us aren't moving forward is not because God doesn't want you to, it's because you've never surrendered what you already have to Him.
And if you would, you'd watch doors open that no man can close, and God would close doors, no man can open.
If you just believed and realized no matter what your gift is, what your talent, what you own, you could be a business owner, you could be a sanitation person, you could be a builder, you could be a construction worker,
You could be a plumber.
Whatever it is, you work as unto the Lord.
You surrender that all to Him and say, God, this is your business.
And how does he know of God's business?
Do you give from your business?
Do you sow from your business?
Do you tithe from the prophet?
Not just whatever comes from the prophet of your business.
Is it his business or is it yours?
Now, you're the steward of it.
But man, at times we gotta say, God, this is your business.
I'm gonna do it as under you.
I'm just gonna believe you for whatever.
I'm just gonna be faithful and honor you.
I'm gonna do it in excellence because when you honor God, you're doing things in excellence.
Not because you're the best, not because you did it perfectly, but because you just honor Him and you realize who you're really working for.
John 15.5 says, apart from me, you can do nothing.
Everything you have came from Him.
Your ability came from Him.
Your opportunity came from Him.
Your strength came from Him.
So the question is not, is your work impressive?
The question is, is your work surrendered?
Because surrender work becomes sacred work.
Galatians 6, 9, let us not grow weary of doing good.
for a new season we will reap if we do not give up.
Just don't give up.
Keep pushing forward.
Keep striving to do what's right.
God, I'm working this under you.
I know I get caught up with some of this stuff, but I'm going to work at it.
I'm going to get better at it.
I'm not going to get caught up with all the complaining and murmuring that the other employees do.
I'm going to do what I know to do.
And as an employee, you're not going to bat mouth all your employees.
How can you lead people you don't believe in?
We got to change our attitude.
The business world doesn't know everything.
They know some things, but God's Word knows everything.
We treat people well with respect and kindness, then God will bless your life.
You have grace and mercy on others, so God can have grace and mercy on you.
Someone messes up in the kingdom we want to throw them out.
We're the worst at it.
We're worse than the world.
Oh, he messed up.
She messed up.
They're no good.
They can't be used of God.
That's what I heard with David Swan.
I don't know how you could
Help him get in the ministry because our job is to restore human beings.
And I've always believed this, God, if I have grace and mercy on people, you'll have grace and mercy on me because I need it.
I get tired of the church.
We're the most cannibalistic group in America.
We eat our own.
We should be picking them up.
We should quit being busy bodies.
getting another people's life.
You don't know.
I don't even know why I'm talking about this.
Because I think guys, we have to have the heart of God and quit getting caught up in this religious stuff and start living the life God wants us to live.
Let's be good to each other.
If we mess up, we mess up.
No one in here, nobody in here can say you've never messed up.
Nobody.
And I just can't stand it.
I've never liked it.
Even when I was young and low, I didn't like it.
It was like something's not right here.
We should help one another.
We should believe for the best in one another.
I don't know.
We need to understand that some of you are building something right now and no one sees it.
You're building your family.
You're building your character.
You're building your integrity.
You're building your faith.
It matters to God.
Nothing surrendered to God is ever wasted.
And then the tabernacle points us to Jesus.
This is what's interesting.
John 1 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us.
Jesus became the dwelling place of God's presence.
The tabernacle was a shadow.
Jesus is the substance.
And now through Christ, something even greater has happened.
Listen to this, 1 Corinthians 6, 19, or do you not know your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you whom you have received from God?
You are not your own.
When you said yes to Jesus, you quit being your own.
You quit being your own.
You started being God's people.
God, you're the temple of the Holy Spirit and the same spirit that filled Bizel'el now fills you.
That means wherever you go, God goes.
Whatever you do matters because you carry his presence.
Luke 16, 10 says, one who is faithful and very little is also faithful and much.
Faithfulness is the ordinary, prepares you for the extraordinary.
Ephesians 2, 10 says,
for we are God's masterpiece.
He has created us anew in Christ Jesus, so we can do the good things He planned for us long ago.
You are His workmanship.
God designed you, He gripped you, and He filled you.
And God calls you to surrender what is in your hands.
Surrender what is in your hands.
That's all He calls us to do.
What is in your life?
What haven't you given to God?
Romans 12.1 says,
present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship.
Worship is not just singing, worship is surrender.
Years ago, a man walked into a violin shop carrying an ole violin.
It was scratched, it was worn, it looked ordinary.
The owner said it had little value, but then a master picked it up.
He tightened it
He adjusted it, he began to play.
And beautiful music filled the room.
The value changed.
Not because the instrument changed.
I want you to hear this, but because of whose hands it was in.
And that's what God is trying to tell us.
Your life in your hands has limits, but your life in God's hands has no limits.
See, surrender is placing your life in the hands of the master.
So build, serve, lead, work, honor God with what He has placed in your hands.
What has He put there?
Well, I don't have much, but what has He put there?
Quit worrying about what you haven't done it.
Just what has He put there?
You never know if you'll use what God has put right there, and you submit it to Him.
Man, there's things inside of us we don't even know.
When I first got to say when the Bible started, I didn't know I could do this.
I didn't know I could be part of projects that we're part of, reaching the people we're reaching, touching lives the way we're doing it.
That came because we kept using what God gave us.
He may give me very little, a one talent, but dear God, we just use it the best we could.
I don't know what your talent is.
I don't know what your gift, your abilities are, but whatever it is, do it as under God, because it matters.
It matters.
And you're just as anointed, you're just as filled as any of the great creatures you can talk about.
That's the bottom line.
God values you.
Now we need to value Him.
Honor God with what He's placed in your hands.
Because the same spirit that filled Bizello now fills you.
And when His spirit fills your life, your work becomes worship.
Your life becomes His dwelling place.
And your faithfulness becomes part of His eternal glory.
God is not looking for the most talented people.
He is looking for the most surrendered people.
because talent without surrender has limits, but surrender in the hands of God has no limits.
Let me read this in I close, Deuteronomy 8, 18.
Remember the Lord your God, He is the one who gives you the power to be successful in order to fulfill the covenant He confirmed to your ancestors with an oath.
God is the one that gives us the power to be successful.
If you want to be more successful in life, you want to have more peace in your life, you want better families, you want God's presence in all those things, then surrender your life to Him.
Say, God, here's my life.
I'm going to start working as unto you.
I'm going to start doing as unto you.
And let me tell you something.
God's called us to do something.
God has not called you to be a couch potato.
Waiting for the perfect job.
Well, I'm not taking these jobs.
They're beneath me.
If God opens the door, you go.
Because God can find a moving vehicle more than he can find one that's stationary.
He can't push.
He won't move one that's stationary, but he can sure maneuver those that are driving.
We're just moving.
If we believe God, you want to be lazy and just be dependent on the government all your life.
If you have the ability to work, then I'm going to tell you something.
Your life is limited, and it's limited, and you'll be frustrated most of your life.
Go get a job.
Just go start somewhere.
Go to work.
We need people to go to work.
Why?
Because God wants, He has something for us to do.
Now, some people aren't able to work.
They're disabled, they can't work.
That's one thing.
And I don't mind helping people who are helping themselves, but I can't stand that we help the lazy.
Because we're not called to help the lazy.
We're not called to do one thing form.
In fact, God said, just starve.
And then you get hungry enough, you'll go to work, you'll go do something.
And we've got to come to a place where we believe more in the Word of God than in some of this craziness that's happening in our country and the world.
God cares, and He loves you, that's the bottom line.
And whatever you do is not ordinary.
You put in the master's hands and it's extraordinary.
And then God can lean and guide your life, which I hope we all want.
But He can't do it if you're unwilling.
Let's just be more willing.
Let's just surrender our life to Him.
Father in Jesus' name, I thank You for being here.
I thank You for teaching us.
I thank You for helping us understand what You're saying.
That we've got to surrender that excellence is more honor than anything else.
If we honor You, God, then You'll say, I found an excellent spirit in them and her and this guy, this lady, this child, this young person.
We teach our kids to believe more in the Word than this other stuff in the world.
Because that's the, that's the only thing can change our life.
That's the only thing that's eternal.
Heaven and Earth will pass away, you said Jesus, but my word will never pass away.
Teach us today and help us as we surrender our lives to you.
As we work as unto you, as we realize you're our employer, you're the one that makes us successful.
You're the one that opens doors and closed doors.
So thank you, Father.
for always caring for us, in Jesus' name.
If you're here with every head bowed and you say, preacher, would you pray with me?
I walked with God, but I've walked away.
I back slid, and it could be for a plethora of reasons.
I don't know.
But no matter what the reasons are, it's time to come home today.
That's why you're here.
That's so that you know, if you died today, you'd go to heaven.
We never know when we're gonna leave, guys.
We never know when that day's coming.
All we need to do is be ready for when it comes.
And if you want, I'll pray with you.
Believe God with you so you'll know.
Maybe you're hearing you.
You said, I've never made Jesus Lord of my life.
You believe in him, you say you've accepted him, but no, have you made him Lord of your life.
Jesus only saves those who are willing to make him Lord.
That's from the Bible.
If you confess to me as Lord, you'll be saved.
Romans 10, 9, 10, and 13.
You have to decide.
But with every head bowed just for a moment and you say, preacher, that's me.
I'm gonna ask you to do one simple thing.
It's so simple, but really it's so profound.
I'm gonna give you an opportunity to say, God, I don't care what anybody knows or thinks, I just want you in my life.
God, I'm willing to humble myself and surrender my life to you right now.
If that's you in Jesus' name, right where you're seated, and you see preacher and clue me in your prayer.
Here's all I'm gonna ask you to do.
Are you ready?
Write at your seat.
If that's you, would you just lift your hand all over this place?
St. clue me pray.
God bless you.
Thank you.
I'm just looking across.
God bless you.
Thank you.
I'm looking just across the church.
I'm looking at the top now.
Is anybody else up there that hadn't lifted their hand?
Thank you.
God bless you, sir.
I'm looking at the top.
God bless you up there.
Yes, thank you, thank you.
I'm just looking across.
Thank you, God bless you.
You just put your hand up, put it down, guys.
You're just, this is your confession.
God bless you.
The Bible says, if we confess the Lord Jesus before man, he'll confess this before our Father in heaven.
And this, what I'm asking you to do is that acknowledgement means acknowledgement.
God bless you.
You're acknowledging Jesus before these people by the lifting of your hand so that God can acknowledge you or Jesus acknowledged you before our heavenly Father.
Anybody else?
want to say, hey, I'm willing to acknowledge my life.
Thank you.
I see that hand.
I see that.
Thank you, God bless you.
It's just humbling.
I know it is, but that's the only way we come to Christ with humble hearts.
That's the only way we get right with Him is to recognize we need Him in our life.
It's not trying to make you less of a man.
He's trying to make you more of a man.
When you come to Christ, you don't become weak.
You become stronger.
And He wants you to stay a man.
When you come here as a woman, He wants you to make you a better woman.
He wants to make you a better person.
That's what God does.
He just makes things better.
Anybody else before we close?
Say, preacher, would you pray with me?
Thank you.
See that hand?
God bless you guys.
Father, in Jesus' name, so many hands were raised in here.
There's a lot of them.
And God, you know them by name.
You know everything about them.
You know, the risings in their sitings.
You know, every hair,
is numbered on their head.
You know everything, and you still are calling them into your family.
So right now in the powerful name of Jesus, I lift them up to you.
And that's that you bless them.
And you show yourself strong in their behalf that they would really come to know you and know your ways.
And as they surrender their lives to you today, God, may it be a daily thing.
God, I give you my life.
God, our work is under you.
God, I'll realize you're my real employer.
And I'll honor you so I can walk in excellence.
I'll be faithful to what you put in my hands, but I'll always be willing to place it in the master's hands.
Because in the master's hands, things are so much better.
In Jesus' name, bless him.
If you lifted your hand, I want you to pray this prayer aloud with me right where you seated.
Loud enough for your ears to hear your voice.
I want everybody in here that's right with God to join us in support of all these folks that lift their hand.
So we'll pray with them and they'll know, hey, there's people that believe
and me in supporting me.
And maybe he didn't lift your hand, but you should have.
Let me introduce you to Christ.
You pray with us.
Would you pray God?
I choose to believe in your son, Jesus.
And I believe he's your only son.
And he's the only way.
And you raised him from the dead to give me a new life.
So today, I surrender my life to you.
I believe in my heart these things, and now I willingly confess with my mouth, Jesus be Lord of my life.
Thank you for saving me, and thank you for forgiving me in Jesus' name.
Amen and amen and amen.
Let's thank the Lord.